# ***Supervised Machine Learning Grouop Project***
### ***Abstract***

This study aims to predict the risk factors of undernutrition among under-five children in Ethiopia using machine learning algorithms. We extracted our dataset from the 2016 Ethiopian Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) child recode and individual recode datasets. To predict the risk factors, we decided to combine three indicators: stunting, wasting, and underweight, as the target variable to determine whether a child is malnourished. We evaluated several machine learning algorithms to predict the determinants of undernutrition and our final results show that the Naive Bayes model outperformed the other models in predicting the indicators. This study provides insight into potential risk factors for undernutrition in Ethiopia, which could inform potential interventions and future policy decisions to address this critical public health issue.

### ***Introduction***
Undernutrition is a critical public health challenge that affects millions of children worldwide. According to the latest data from the WHO about under-five children, it is estimated that around 150 million are stunted, 45 million are wasted and around 340 million are suffering from some kind of micronutrient deficiency.

Predicting the risk factors of undernutrition is essential in developing effective interventions to address this issue. Our study aims to use machine learning algorithms to predict the risk factors of undernutrition among children under the age of five in Ethiopia. Our study uses data from the 2016 Ethiopian Demographic and Health Survey (DHS). The DHS is a national survey conducted every five years that is designed to collect valuable information on a population's health and well-being in order to make further improvements to their quality of life.   The Ethiopian DHS has multiple datasets about men, women, households, etc. For the data collection of each of these datasets, the DHS employed multi-stage stratification to stratify the data into 624 clusters. Since we only needed the samples of  under-5 children, we extracted 9471 relevant samples from the ‘Individual Recode’ dataset. This dataset contains many features pertaining to health information such as height, weight, and age. It also has various features for socio-economic and demographic data, such as maternal education, wealth index, etc. In order to predict which features were the most significant determinants of undernutrition we employed four different machine learning algorithms: Naive Bayes, Random Forest, MLP, and SVM. We computed the label for our models by comparing the standard measures of the height-for-age, weight-for-height, and weight-for-age indicators provided by WHO  with the measures of each child in Ethiopia provided by the child recode dataset. If all three indicators are a significant amount below the standard measure by WHO, then the label variable for that child would be binary encoded as 1, and 0 otherwise.
